What: Outline of paper for JCGS (Journal of computational and graphical statistics) or 
American Statistician
(Note: Which journal to publish in, has not been finalized as yet, 
and the format in LaTeX will depend on it – maybe simply inclusion of a 
style file of the paper, if there exists one)

Authors: Nitin Jain, Klaus F. Ley (prof @ Univ. of Virginia), Gregory R. Warnes 
(Note: Order of authors can be changed – I think Greg should be senior (last) author)

Title: Different methods of displaying heatmaps for gene-expression data 
	(Note:  Above title is just temporary – would be revised)

Paper length: Approximately 2-3 pages or in which the content can fit in appropriately.

Contents: Will cover three types of displays of heatmaps:
		1) Effects (pros and cons) of displaying ratio statistics with Red and green 
colors as over- and under-expressed genes. (Traditional way)
2) Effects (pros + cons) of displaying absolute numbers (here gene expression) with red and green colors.
3) Effects (pros + cons) of displaying data on ordinal scale
	
		It will lead to a conclusion that all three displays are important for gene-expression data and must be taken into account together to get an unbiased picture.

Another important component of the paper will be regarding the modifications in heatmap.2.R (of gplots bundle) over traditional heatmap.R function – regarding the legend, color separation by lines, and other modifications.

Figures:  Three figures can be shown for each of the heatmap types, and then one improved figure (of any of the above 3 approaches) using heatmap.2
	(Note: Data for the heatmap can be obtained from publically published 
 	Gene-expression data by Prof. Klaus Ley (9 chips – 3 conditions, 3 reps each) or
	A subset of well-known genes from 22-chip experiment (11 conditions, 2 reps) 
from Prof. Ley, or any other publically available source.)

Limitations: Limitations of heatmaps can be described as simply that they are not good for visualizing data set of more than 50 – 60 genes.

Paper writers: 
·	Nitin Jain (to write three approaches) and 
·	Greg Warnes (to write improvements in heatmap.2  and overall grammar/structure of the paper).
(Note: Should we include any biological conclusions? For example, if we decide to include some well known genes of 22-chip experiment (above), then it may be a good idea to include some biology – but that may not be in the scope of JCGS or AS.)

